




field and pub image 596 has picture of archives (of the archive boxes)

On the second of May, 1940, an enumerator named Edward W. Davenport interviewed Clare Duter, a homemaker with a high school education and two sons aged 6 and 4. Duter reported that her husband Ralph worked--like the enumerator--for the census, but his job was different. Davenport recorded his job as "photographer."

What did it mean to be a census photographer? It may be that Duter took publicity shots for census advertising campaigns, or documentary photographs of the bureau's machines--I have plenty of evidence that such photographs existed, but none with Duter recognized as the author. Instead, Duter shows up in the historical record--in the *Washington Post* in fact--as a micro-photographer: he took pictures on microfilm of aging census records. Those photos are the means by which census records come to most Americans. Duter, or one of his successors, eventually made such a photograph of his own 1940 census record. And decades later a scanner digitized those microfilm reels, creating jpegs like the one above.

<!---
“Not always has the census been such a machine-age process as it has been in 1940. In ‘olden times’ the enumerators wrote in large books. Ralph W. Duter here is using the micro-film camera to photograph old records to prevent the wear and tear of constant handling.” (VII:3)
Christine Sadler, “Our Town in Pictures,” Washington Post 12 May 1940. [image 469] Entry 215, “Publicity Materials File of the Statistical Research Division” Box 234
--->

<!---
U.S. Department of Commerce, *Annual Report* (1921) "Appendix B.--Abstract of Report of the Director of the Bureau of the Census"

"A fire int he Department building destroyed a portion of the census records, and a large part of those records is still stored in nonfireproof buildings...A hall of records in which these documents can be stored and conveniently examined is most urgently needed.
"The census schedules contain a vast amount of unpublished information that is of great value in studying the agricultural, industrial, and social conditions in various States and cities. The State governments of New York, Pennsylvania, and Arkansas, ass well as the governments of some of our important cities, have at different times maintained corps of clerks in the Bureau to copy special material from these records. The Secretary of Agriculture has requested me to make a number of special tabulations and to furnish other material that will be of great assistance int he conduct of the various investigations of agricultural conditions now in progress in this department. The Bureau of Internal Revenue, the Bureau of Pensions, and other Federal offices are constantly calling on the Census Bureau for information from its schedules; and individuals and societies interested in genealogical and other research work are frequently requesting information contianed in the returns of the earlier censuses. To satisfy these demands a corps of clerks is continually employed in searching the records." (47)
--->
